# Reflection
My project aimed to build a case for the proactive monitoring of 19th Century buildings. Thus, when I began building project 1, I included visualizations that would help. In the first iteration of Project 1, I included a map, bar graph, and line graph. The idea was to tell the whole story of 19th Century buildings. This changed after the critique session.

During this critique session, comments made on the lack of pictures made me rethink the flow of the story. When I incorporated pictures on the second iteration of the project, I had to change the original grid layout. Project 1 revolved around the story of 19th Century buildings, by removing the first map, the story lost its ending. So, the story had to change. Instead of it being a technically geared storyline, it became more of a narrative. By removing the original engineer breakdown of 19th Century buildings, the story now starts with showcasing an incident. This prompt the use of a new map introducing incident throughout New York City to engage the user into the story.

This map proved difficult to create since I could not find the appropriate data. Public data sources only included general fields for an incident. This data excluded details regarding complete incident descriptions. With some help from a colleague, I was able to obtain description data from a private database. This data proved to be useful as it explains different issues that can appear in these buildings. Combining the public data and private data proved to be more informative but took a long to attain. Once mapped, figuring out how to display the information proved to be another obstacle. Deciding on whether to display the information as polygons or points was not easy as the data was package as polygons.  After considering both cases, the idea of using polygons was discarded as a choropleth was not needed. Instead, icons were used to show the location of the incidences.

Other comments were also made regarding the map. It was noted that the map could stand as its project. So, I used this map for Project 2. By moving this map onto Project 2, as mentioned, left Project 1 without an ending. As I worked through solving the issue, I reworked the idea behind what would be the Project 2 map. Initially, the data for the map contained only two data fields: building location and construction activity. After an ideation session, the data fields evolved and included building location, construction activity, complaints, and whether the building was adjacent to construction. With these new data fields, the use of buffers was not needed. Instead, the map required the use of pop-ups. These pop-ups were simple to create following a Mapbox tutorial. These pop-ups show classification details concerning all the layers used and proved to be a key point for the project. I enjoyed creating the dataset for this map and seeing the data and visualization come together.

In the end, the critiques I received were key to the final design decisions for my projects. The critiques helped mold my project and further develop the core ideas behind the case. The critiques emphasized the importance of keeping your target audience in mind. When presenting my projects, I had to recall that my audience would not be the same audience for whom my project was intended for. This meant providing a little more information for the critique session. However, that was not to say that the critiques did not matter. The critiques were important to me as they made me realize that I missed a major part of my project. This major part is the reasoning behind the research which I failed to include in the first draft of my project.

 While creating Project 1, I thought that my greatest obstacle would be creating the map. At first, it was as I needed to overlay multiple JSON files to create my final map. Per feedback received, I moved on using Mapbox to create my maps. With some research and through some practice, mapping proved a lot easier using the Mapbox tools. Thus, what turned out difficult to do was figuring out how to use an event listener to resize my containers was hard. I tried several ways to include an "on load" command for my charts which did not work. Currently, both of my charts on Project 1 do not resize to the container when the view changes.

If I had more time, I would have added several items to Project 1. I would first have successfully used event listeners to resize my charts, as resizing the charts is a key component to a functional visualization. I would also have added interactive components to the line graph. My idea was to include a mouseover to show the y-axis data points when the user hovered over the line. But all attempts to do so failed to display. Regarding Project 2, I think it would have been great to see the results of my predictive analysis on the map. Due to time constraints and accuracy, the data was not included. But, given more time, it could have been. This layer provides key information on the relationship between the different variables. It would have been a good transition to a possible third project.

An item, I would have liked to work on is image pop-ups. As I had not originally thought to include images, I did not dedicate a lot of time to better ways to include the items. Given more time and resources, I would have attempted to include a slideshow of images of different buildings. The images would have included historical pictures as well as images from the Department of Housing Preservation and Development I-Card records.

In the end, I think the design process was useful with this being the first time I am involved in creating visualizations using d3. I think the idea of having an ideation session, iterations of a project, and a final product seem like the go-to steps. The design process helped me to understand the importance of feedback and hope to include this more in my projects. The design process, however, does leave you at a loss when you spend a lot more time trying to figure out how to create your ideal visualization. In other words, although the design process gave me a guideline as to how to move on with my project, it was hard to follow through when the knowledge of creating visualization was lacking. I hope to improve on my skills and hope to create better visualizations in the future. Hopefully, as I learn I can work out a design process that works for me.  

